📘 SFT doc rewrite (#3619)
huggingface/trl: docs/source/sft_trainer.md

```

you can do so by passing the `model_init_kwargs={"torch_dtype": torch.bfloat16}` argument to the [`SFTConfig`].

```python
from trl import SFTConfig

training_args = SFTConfig(
    model_init_kwargs={"torch_dtype": torch.bfloat16},
)
```

Note that all keyword arguments of `from_pretrained()` are supported.

### Packing

[`SFTTrainer`] supports _example packing_, where multiple examples are packed in the same input sequence to increase training efficiency. To enable packing, simply pass `packing=True` to the [`SFTConfig`] constructor.

```python
training_args = SFTConfig(packing=True)
```

For more details on packing, see [Packing](reducing_memory_usage#packing).

### Train on assistant messages only

To train on assistant messages only, use a [conversational](dataset_formats#conversational) dataset and set `assistant_only_loss=True` in the [`SFTConfig`]. This setting ensures that loss is computed **only** on the assistant responses, ignoring user or system messages.

```python
training_args = SFTConfig(assistant_only_loss=True)
```

![train_on_assistant](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-lib/documentation-images/resolve/main/train_on_assistant.png)

<Tip warning={true}>

> This functionality is only available for chat templates that support returning the assistant tokens mask via the `{% generation %}` and `{% endgeneration %}` keywords. For an example of such an template, see [HugggingFaceTB/SmolLM3-3B](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolLM3-3B/blob/main/chat_template.jinja#L76-L82).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality is only available for chat templates that support returning the assistant tokens mask via the `{% raw %}{% generation %}{% endraw %}` and `{% raw %}{% endgeneration %}{% endraw %}` keywords. For an example of such a template, see [HugggingFaceTB/SmolLM3-3B](https://huggingface.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolLM3-3B/blob/main/chat_template.jinja#L76-L82).
```

Author: thanks!

</Tip>

### Train on completion only

To train on completion only, use a [prompt-completion](dataset_formats#prompt-completion) dataset. By default, the trainer computes the loss on the completion tokens only, ignoring the prompt tokens. If you want to train on the full sequence, set `completion_only_loss=False` in the [`SFTConfig`].

![train_on_completion](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-lib/documentation-images/resolve/main/train_on_completion.png)

<Tip>
Training on completion only is compatible with training on assistant messages only. In this case, use a [conversational](dataset_formats#conversational) [prompt-completion](dataset_formats#prompt-completion) dataset and set `assistant_only_loss=True` in the [`SFTConfig`].
</Tip>

### Train adapters with PEFT

> We support tight integration with 🤗 PEFT library so that any user can conveniently train adapters and share them on the Hub instead of training the entire model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We support tight integration with 🤗 PEFT library, allowing any user to conveniently train adapters and share them on the Hub, rather than training the entire model.
```

</Tip>

### Training adapters
### Train adapters with PEFT

We also support tight integration with 🤗 PEFT library so that any user can conveniently train adapters and share them on the Hub instead of training the entire model.
We support tight integration with 🤗 PEFT library, allowing any user to conveniently train adapters and share them on the Hub, rather than training the entire model.

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from trl import SFTConfig, SFTTrainer
from trl import SFTTrainer
from peft import LoraConfig

dataset = load_dataset("trl-lib/Capybara", split="train")

peft_config = LoraConfig(
    r=16,
    lora_alpha=32,
    lora_dropout=0.05,
    target_modules="all-linear",
    modules_to_save=["lm_head", "embed_token"],
    task_type="CAUSAL_LM",
)

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    "Qwen/Qwen2.5-0.5B",
    "Qwen/Qwen3-0.6B",
    train_dataset=dataset,
    args=SFTConfig(output_dir="Qwen2.5-0.5B-SFT"),
    peft_config=peft_config
    peft_config=LoraConfig()
)

trainer.train()
```

> > [!WARNING]

Author: Now it's handled automatically if you use clone_chat_template (or chat_template_path from SFTConfig

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the quick reply @qgallouedec but based on my reading of the documentation, it does not handle the `modules_to_save` issue that was described in this warning.

The user still needs to explicitly add `modules_to_save` in case new tokens are being added.

Is this the correct interpretation or am I missing something?

* `learning_rate`: The current learning rate, which may change dynamically if a scheduler is used.
* `grad_norm`: The L2 norm of the gradients, computed before gradient clipping.

## Customization

### Model initialization

You can directly pass the kwargs of the [`~transformers.AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained()`] method to the [`SFTConfig`]. For example, if you want to load a model in a different precision, analogous to

```python
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("Qwen/Qwen3-0.6B", torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16)
```

you can do so by passing the `model_init_kwargs={"torch_dtype": torch.bfloat16}` argument to the [`SFTConfig`].

```python
from trl import SFTConfig

training_args = SFTConfig(
    model_init_kwargs={"torch_dtype": torch.bfloat16},
)
```

Note that all keyword arguments of `from_pretrained()` are supported.

### Packing

[`SFTTrainer`] supports _example packing_, where multiple examples are packed in the same input sequence to increase training efficiency. To enable packing, simply pass `packing=True` to the [`SFTConfig`] constructor.

```python
training_args = SFTConfig(packing=True)
```

> For more defails on packing, see [Packing](reducing_memory_usage#packing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on packing, see [Packing](reducing_memory_usage#packing).
```

### Train on assistant messages only

> To train on assistant messages only, use a [conversational](dataset_formats#conversational) dataset and set `assistant_only_loss=True` in the [`SFTConfig`]. This setting ensures that loss is computed **only** on the assistant responses, ignoring user and system and user messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To train on assistant messages only, use a [conversational](dataset_formats#conversational) dataset and set `assistant_only_loss=True` in the [`SFTConfig`]. This setting ensures that loss is computed **only** on the assistant responses, ignoring user or system and user messages.
```
